Update Alert Docs (#73)
smartdevicelink/sdl_app_library_guides: docs/Displaying a User Interface/Alerts/index.md

# Alerts
An alert is a pop-up window that can show a short message with optional buttons. When an alert is activated, it will abort any SDL operation that is in-progress, except the already-in-progress alert. If an alert is issued while another alert is still in progress, the newest alert will simply be ignored.

Depending the platform, an alert can have up to three lines of text, a progress indicator (e.g. a spinning wheel or hourglass), and up to four soft buttons.

!!! NOTE
The alert will persist on the screen until the timeout has elapsed, or the user dismisses the alert by selecting a button. There is no way to dismiss the alert programmatically other than to set the timeout length.
!!!

> ## Creating an Alert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Alert Layouts
```

### Alert With No Soft Buttons
!!! NOTE
If no soft buttons are added to an alert some OEMs may add a default "cancel" or "close" button.
!!!

> #### Alert HMI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![Generic - Alert](assets/Generic_alert.png)

@![iOS]

> #####  Objective-C

Reviewer: Remove these and use them for the "Creating the Alert" part below.

Author: Let me know if how I have it know is good after the other fixes

```objc
SDLAlert *alert =  [SDLAlert alloc] initWithAlertText1:@"<#Line 1#>" alertText2:@"<#Line 2#>" alertText3:@"<#Line 3#>"];
```

##### Swift
```swift
let alert = SDLAlert(alertText1: "<#Line 1#>", alertText2: "<#Line 2#>", alertText3: "<#Line 3#>")
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

### Alert With Soft Buttons

> #### Alert HMI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

![Generic - Alert](assets/Generic_alert_buttons.png)

@![iOS]

> ##### Objective-C

Reviewer: Move these code examples down. See Nicole's issue for the general structure. These would be good for button examples at the bottom.

Author: I think the order should be in the best order now after the other changes

```objc
SDLAlert *alert = [[SDLAlert alloc] initWithAlertText1:@"<#Line 1#>" alertText2:@"<#Line 2#>" alertText3:@"<#Line 3#>"];

NSMutableArray<SDLSoftButton *> *softButtons = [[NSMutableArray alloc] init];

SDLSoftButton *button1 = [[SDLSoftButton alloc] initWithType:SDLSoftButtonTypeText text:<#Button Text#> image:nil highlighted:@NO buttonId:<#Soft Button Id#> systemAction:SDLSystemActionDefaultAction handler:^(SDLOnButtonPress *_Nullable buttonPress, SDLOnButtonEvent *_Nullable buttonEvent) {
    if (buttonPress == nil) {
        return;
    }
    <#Code for when the button is pressed#>
}];

SDLSoftButton *button2 = [[SDLSoftButton alloc] initWithType:SDLSoftButtonTypeText text:<#Button Text#> image:nil highlighted:@NO buttonId:<#Soft Button Id#> systemAction:SDLSystemActionDefaultAction handler:^(SDLOnButtonPress *_Nullable buttonPress, SDLOnButtonEvent *_Nullable buttonEvent) {
    if (buttonPress == nil) {
        return;
    }
    <#Code for when the button is pressed#>
}];

[softButtons addObject: button1];
[softButtons addObject: button2];

alert.softButtons = softButtons;
```

> #### Swift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Swift
```

```swift
let alert = SDLAlert(alertText1: "<#Line 1#>", alertText2: "<#Line 2#>", alertText3: "<#Line 3#>")

var softButtons = [SDLSoftButton]()

let button1 = SDLSoftButton(type: .text, text: <#Button Text#>, image: nil, highlighted: false, buttonId: <#Soft Button Id#>, systemAction: .defaultAction, handler: { buttonPress, buttonEvent in
    guard buttonPress != nil else { return }
    <#Code for when the button is pressed#>
})

let button2 = SDLSoftButton(type: .text, text: <#Button Text#>, image: nil, highlighted: false, buttonId: <#Soft Button Id#>, systemAction: .defaultAction, handler: { buttonPress, buttonEvent in
    guard buttonPress != nil else { return }
    <#Code for when the button is pressed#>
})

softButtons.append(button1)
softButtons.append(button2)

alert.softButtons = softButtons;
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

> ## Additonal Alert Paramaters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating the Alert
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a small code example for just creating the alert with text.

Author: moved the section above to do this

### Timeouts
An optional timeout can be added that will dimiss the alert when the duration is over.  Typical timeouts are between 3 and 10 seconds. If omitted a default of 5 second is used.

@![iOS]
##### Objective-C
```objc
// Duration timeout is in milliseconds
alert.duration = @(4000);
```

##### Swift
```swift
// Duration timeout is in milliseconds
alert.duration = 4000
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
`//TODO - code example `
!@

### Progress Indicator
Not all OEMs support a progress indicator. If supported, the alert will show an animation that indicates that the user must wait (e.g. a spinning wheel or hourglass, etc). If omitted, no progress indicator will be shown.

@![iOS]

> #### Objective-C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Objective-C
```

```objc
alert.progressIndicator = @YES;
```

> #### Swift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Swift
```

!@

### Text-To-Speach
The alert can also be formatted to speak a prompt or play a file when the alert appears on the screen. Do this by setting the `ttsChunks` parameter.

@![iOS]
##### Objective-C
```objc
alert.ttsChunks = [SDLTTSChunk textChunksFromString:@"<#Text to speak#>"];
```

##### Swift
```swift
alert.ttsChunks = SDLTTSChunk.textChunks(from: "<#Text to speak#>")
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

### Text-To-Speach With File
The `ttsChunks` can also take a file to play/speak. First you must [upload](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/iOS/other-sdl-features/uploading-files/) a file to the head unit.

@![iOS]
##### Objective-C
```objc
 alert.ttsChunks = [SDLTTSChunk fileChunksWithName:@"<#Name#>"];
```
 
##### Swift
```swift
 alert.ttsChunks = SDLTTSChunk.fileChunks(withName: "<#Name#>")
```
!@
 
@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

### Play Tone
To play the alert tone when the alert appears and before the text-to-speech is spoken, set `playTone` to `true`.

@![iOS]
##### Objective-C
```objc
alert.playTone = @YES;
```

##### Swift
```swift
alert.playTone = true
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

> ### Showing the Alert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Showing the Alert
```

## Alert UI

> Depending the platform, an alert can have up to three lines of text, a progress indicator (e.g. a spinning wheel or hourglass), and up to four soft buttons.

Author: moved

> ## Create an Alert

Author: fixed , didn't see this when committing suggestions

### Alert With No Soft Buttons
!!! NOTE
If no soft buttons are added to an alert some OEMs may add a default button.
!!!

#### Alert HMI
###### Generic HMI
![Generic - Alert](assets/Generic_alert.png)

@![iOS]
####  Objective-C
```objc
SDLALert *alert =  [SDLAlert alloc] initWithAlertText1:@"<#Line 1#>" alertText2:@"<#Line 2#>" alertText3:@"<#Line 3#>"];
```

#### Swift
```swift
let alert = SDLAlert(alertText1: "<#Line 1#>", alertText2: "<#Line 2#>", alertText3: "<#Line 3#>")
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

### Alert With Soft Buttons

#### Alert HMI
###### Generic HMI
![Generic - Alert](assets/Generic_alert_buttons.png)

@![iOS]
#### Objective-C
```objc

> SDLAlert *alert =  [[SDLAlert alloc] initWithAlertText1:@"<#Line 1#>" alertText2:@"<#Line 2#>" alertText3:@"<#Line 3#>"];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDLAlert *alert = [[SDLAlert alloc] initWithAlertText1:@"<#Line 1#>" alertText2:@"<#Line 2#>" alertText3:@"<#Line 3#>"];
```

NSMutableArray<SDLSoftButton *> *softButtons = [[NSMutableArray alloc] init];

> SDLSoftButton *button1 = [[SDLSoftButton alloc] init];

Reviewer: Use the initializer instead?

Author: fixed

button1.text = @"<# Button Text #>";
button1.type = SDLSoftButtonTypeText;
button1.softButtonID  = @<#Soft Button Id#>;
button1.handler = ^(SDLOnButtonPress *_Nullable buttonPress,  SDLOnButtonEvent *_Nullable buttonEvent) {

> if (buttonPress == nil) {

Reviewer: Indentation

Author: fixed

    return;
}

> // create a custom action for the selected button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<# Code for when the button is pressed #>
```

};

SDLSoftButton *button2 = [[SDLSoftButton alloc] init];
button2.text = @"<# Button Text 2 #>";
button2.type = SDLSoftButtonTypeText;
button2.softButtonID  = @<#Soft Button Id#>;
button2.handler = ^(SDLOnButtonPress *_Nullable buttonPress,  SDLOnButtonEvent *_Nullable buttonEvent) {

> if (buttonPress == nil) {

Reviewer: Indentation

Author: fixed

    return;
}

> // create a custom action for the selected button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<# Code for when the button is pressed #>
```

};

[softButtons addObject: button1];
[softButtons addObject: button2];

alert.softButtons = softButtons;
```

#### Swift
```swift
let alert = SDLAlert(alertText1: "<#Line 1#>", alertText2: "<#Line 2#>", alertText3: "<#Line 3#>")

var softButtons = [SDLSoftButton]()

var button1 = SDLSoftButton()
button1.text = "<# Button Text #>"

> button1.type = .text

Reviewer: Soft button ID is missing

Author: fixed

button1.handler = { buttonPress, buttonEvent in
    guard buttonPress != nil else { return }

>     <# Create a custom action for the selected button #>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<# Code for when the button is pressed #>
```

}

var button2 = SDLSoftButton()
button2.text = "<# Button Text 2 #>"
button2.type = .text

> button2.handler = { buttonPress, buttonEvent in

Reviewer: Soft button ID is missing

Author: fixed

    guard buttonPress != nil else { return }

>     <# Create a custom action for the selected button #>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<# Code for when the button is pressed #>
```

}

softButtons.append(button1)
softButtons.append(button2)

alert.softButtons = softButtons;
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

## Additonal Alert Paramaters

> @![iOS]

Reviewer: This shouldn't wrap the text, right?

Author: fixed

### Timeouts

> An optional timeout can be added that will dimiss the alert when the duration is over.  Typical timeouts are between 3 and 5 seconds. If omitted a default of 5 second is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An optional timeout can be added that will dimiss the alert when the duration is over.  Typical timeouts are between 3 and 10 seconds. If omitted a default of 5 second is used.
```

> #### Objective-C

Reviewer: ```suggestion

##### Objective-C
```

```objc

> alert.duration = @(4000);

Reviewer: Add a comment that this is in milliseconds

Author: added

```

##### Swift
```swift
alert.duration = 4000
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]

> ` TODO - code example `

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`//TODO - code example `
```

!@

### Progress Indicator

> Not all OEMs support progress Indicator, if supported the alert will show an animation that indictates  loading of a feature (e.g. a spinning wheel or hourglass, etc). If ommited no progess indicator will be shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all OEMs support a progress indicator. If supported, the alert will show an animation that indicates that the user must wait (e.g. a spinning wheel or hourglass, etc). If omitted, no progress indicator will be shown.
```

@![iOS]
#### Objective-C
```objc
alert.progressIndicator = @YES;
```

#### Swift
```swift
alert.progressIndicator = true
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

### Text-To-Speach

> The alert can also be formatted to speak a prompt when the alert appears on the screen. Do this by setting the `ttsChunks` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The alert can also be formatted to speak a prompt or play a file when the alert appears on the screen. Do this by setting the `ttsChunks` parameter.
```

Reviewer: Also add code samples for playing a file

@![iOS]

> #### Objective-C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Objective-C
```

```objc
alert.ttsChunks = [SDLTTSChunk textChunksFromString:@"<#Text to speak#>"];
```

> #### Swift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Swift
```

```swift
alert.ttsChunks = SDLTTSChunk.textChunks(from: "<#Text to speak#>")
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

### Play Tone

> To play the alert tone before the text-to-speech is spoken, set `playTone` to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To play the alert tone when the alert appears and before the text-to-speech is spoken, set `playTone` to `true`.
```

@![iOS]

> #### Objective-C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Objective-C
```

```objc
alert.playTone = @YES;
```

#### Swift
```swift
alert.playTone = true
```
!@

@![android,javaSE,javaEE]
` TODO - code example `
!@

> ### Show The Alert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Showing the Alert
```

@![iOS]

> #### Objective-C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Objective-C
```

```objc
[self.sdlManager sendRequest:alert withResponseHandler:^(SDLRPCRequest *request, SDLRPCResponse *response, NSError *error) {
    if ([response.resultCode isEqualToEnum:SDLResultSuccess]) {
        // alert was dismissed successfully

>         }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }
```

}];
```

> #### Swift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Swift
```

```swift
sdlManager.send(request: alert) { (request, response, error) in

>     if response?.resultCode == .success {

Reviewer: Look at other guides for how this is properly done with a guard. Maintain consistency across documentation.

Author: fixed
